### <span id="calibre_link-7" class="calibre1"></span>Chapter 1 The origin of autism spectrum disorders <span id="caliber_link-89" class="caliber1"></span>

Autism has always existed. There was no name for it. Someone with autism was different, strange or eccentric. Because there was no word for autism, nothing has been described or written about. Only in the early part of the twentieth century was the term autism first used to describe people with a certain mental disorder. And in recent decades, the term autism has become increasingly well-known. Now almost everyone knows the term autism.

The concept of autism comes from the word 'autos'. It is a Greek word and means 'self'. It was already used in psychiatry around 1900 to describe people who were alienated from social interaction. An introvert.

Who exactly used the term autism first is controversial. It is said that a Swiss doctor, Eugen Bleuler, first used the term in 1911 to indicate certain characteristics of schizophrenia.

The name of a Russian doctor, Sukhareva, is also mentioned. She was the first to publish an article in 1925 in Russia with very accurate descriptions of children with what we now know as the Asperger Syndrome (an autism spectrum disorder). The article was translated into German in 1926 and published in a prominent journal for psychiatry and neurology in Germany. Doctor Sukhareva named it "schizoid psychopathy in children." Sukhareva thus initially saw it as a child form of schizophrenia. Only later did she use the term 'autistic psychopathy' in her articles.

The term 'Autism' became known through Leo Kanner. Leo Kanner was born in (what we now know as) Ukraine, from Jewish parents. He was sent to his uncle in Berlin when he was 12 years old to go to school there. On completing his studies as a doctor, after the first world war, he was persuaded by a colleague to emigrate to America. He emigrated in 1924. In America he found work in a hospital and studied psychiatry. He studied children he described in his article in 1943 as having 'Autistic Disturbances of Affective Contact'. Leo Kanner detailed in his article the disturbances of these children and called the children autistics. This made the term autism known as a psychiatric term.

Hans Asperger is also known for his work with children who have characteristics of Asperger Syndrome. He was born in Austria, near Vienna. He studied to become a pediatrician and began his career in 1932 in a children's clinic set up in 1911 by the leading physician Erwin Lazar. The clinic was aimed at children who were 'different' (in various ways). Lazar assumed that these children needed different education and other support and was as a result far ahead of his time. At the clinic, Asperger studied children whom he described as 'autistic psychopaths', also called 'autistic' in short. He described characteristics in these children that we now recognize as characteristics of Asperger's Syndrome. Perhaps he was also interested in these children, because he recognized a number of these symptoms in himself as a child. As early as 1938 he gave a lecture on 'autistic psychopaths' in which he emphasized the abilities of these children.

Leo Kanner and Hans Asperger have become known as the founders of autism spectrum disorders. Leo Kanner soon became known after publication with his description of autism. Only much later, in 1981, when Lorna Wing translated the German text of Hans Asperger into English, his work became known. It is only since then that children with characteristics of Kanner's autism, but who are more intellectual gifted and as a result are better able to intergrate into society, were diagnosed with Asperger's Syndrome. Hans Asperger did not live to experience this recognition as he died in 1980.

Many people wonder if the doctors mentioned above knew each other or that they happened to discover the same things at the same time. It probably had more to do with the spirit of the age. Neurology and psychiatry were disciplines that did not exist that long. It was very much 'in' to conduct research into it. Therefore, the physicians mentioned above will probably have kept themselves informed about what was going on in their field by reading the same (German) journals on psychiatry and neurology. As a result, it seems plausible that they knew about each other's work to a greater or lesser extent.

At the beginning of the last century, autism was thus still seen as part of, or a child form of, schizophrenia. Bleugel and Sukhareva conducted research on people with a disorder in the schizoid spectrum.

Schizophrenia usually becomes apparent in young adults between 15-30 years. Up until then you notice little or nothing special about someone with a disorder in the schizoid spectrum. When the disorder manifests itself, problems usually arise in social and emotional areas and there is often behavioral problems. The researchers tried to discover if there was any indications in childhood that would point to future schizophrenia. Because autistic people often experience problems socially and emotionally and sometimes also exhibit problematic behavior, it was thought that children who had difficulty with this exhibited a childrens form of schizophrenia. And when you look at the symptoms, there are indeed similarities.

<span class="calibre3">Further study found that although the symptoms of both disorders were similar, there were substantial differences, which made Sukhareva and Asperger call it  "</span><span class =" s-t6 " >'autistic psychopathy'. </span>

The words psychopathy and psychopath have very negative associations nowadays. Many people think that psychopaths are serial killers or other very disturbed figures as can be seen in the films. But psychopathy has more to do with self-centeredness. Thinking only of yourself and not considering another person. Often these people are notorious liars and very good at manipulating others without any remorse or even thinking about how annoying it might be for the other to be lied to, deceived or otherwise manipulated.

Explained in this way, you might think that "autistic psychopaths" are inward-looking people who do not take other people into account. And who can not imagine what it is to live as the other person and who only think of themselves. And unfortunately many people do think this way about autistic people. Autistics have no feelings themselves, cannot recognize the feelings of others, and therefore cannot have empathy for the feelings of others. That is not true and that is discussed in more detail later on in this book.

Leo Kanner called autism 'autistic disruptions in affective contact'. He did not mention psychopathy. He saw autistic people as people who have difficulties in the area of ​​affection (affection) and the building of relationships with others by being introverted.

His emphasis was mainly on understanding and expressing through language. This is a point that is also mentioned by Sukhareva and Asperger, but plays a less prominent role in their descriptions of autistic people.

Problems with the language and speech is one of the criteria included in the diagnostic manual in psychiatry to determine whether there is Classical Autism. Until recently when there is little or no speech problem, but other criteria of Autism are met, it was assumed not to be Classic Autism, but rather Asperger Syndrome.
