### <span id="calibre_link-8" class="calibre1">Chapter 2 Autism spectrum disorders according to the DSM <span id="caliber_link-91" class="caliber1">

In this chapter we look at the manual that mental health professionals use to determine whether a person has autism spectrum disorder.

Since the beginning of the last century there has been a lot of research into mental illnesses. In order to be able to investigate whether and which mental disorder someone has, guidelines and criteria have been drawn up, so that psychologists and psychiatrists can make the correct diagnoses. These guidelines and criteria are written down in a manual. This handbook is called the DSM, which is an abbreviation for: 'Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders'. All mental disorders are described in detail in the DSM, so that it is easier to recognize the conditions in patients. 

The first DSM was written in 1952 by a number of leading psychiatrists and psychologists. Of course as further research was conducted, more and more became known about the different mental disorders so that over the course of time the manual had to be adapted. The current version of DSM-IV is now being replaced by the DSM 5. To ease the transition, both versions are often referred to when making the diagnosis.

In the DSM-IV autism spectrum disorders are classified under developmental disorders. Developmental disorders are neurological, psychological or physical disorders that occur in children or adolescents and that hamper normal development. 

The DSM-IV distinguishes the following groups of developmental disorders:

- Dementia (axis II)

- Learning disabilities (including dyslexia and dyscalculia)

- Motor disorders (dyspraxia)

- Communication disorders (including stuttering)

- Pervasive developmental disorders

- Attention deficit and behavioral disorders (ADHD, ODD, CD)

- Eating disorders in childhood (including pica and rumination disorder)

- Tic disorders (including Gilles de la Tourette syndrome)

- Disturbances with faeces (enuresis and encopres)

- Other disorders in childhood or adolescence (separation anxiety, attachment disorder, selective mutism, stereotype movement disorder)

Autism spectrum disorders is not listed here as it falls under the pervasive developmental disorders. The term Pervasive Developmental Disorder, (PDD) is a term in psychiatry with four developmental disorders plus a catch-all group "Not otherwise Specified" (NOS). Pervasive means 'deeply penetrating', which says that it is a disorder that has a drastic impact on all areas of life.

HERE HERE HERE HERE HERE HERE 

The term autism spectrum disorders or autism is also synonymous used, but on etiological (causal) grounds and behavioral classifications does not mean the same for everyone. The causes and behaviors in a diagnosis of 'autism spectrum disorder' are therefore very diverse. 

In the DSM-IV, autism is divided into: classical autism, Asperger's syndrome and PDD-NOS. At PDD-NOS there are sufficient characteristics of autism present, but all together it does not quite meet the criteria to be able to speak of classical autism or Asperger's syndrome and therefore belong to a residual group. These names (autism, Asperger and PDD-NOS) are well known to most people. Furthermore, the disorder of RETT, the 'disintegration disorder in childhood' and MCDD at the DSM-IV are still under the umbrella of autism. These disorders are not discussed in this book.

With the DSM 5, the subdivision of autism is different than with the DSM-IV. The well-known names such as classic autism, Asperger, PDD-NOS and the like fall away. These disorders are now all called ASD (Autism Spectrum Disorder). More attention is now being paid to the need for assistance, whereby a distinction is made between ASD, II and III. If you belong to the group ASS I, then you are very self-reliant and you belong to the group ASS III then you need a lot of help.

For a long time it was also assumed that the diagnosis Autism was inherent in having an intellectual disability and Asperger's syndrome was inherent in having a high IQ. Nothing is further from the truth and that is why the DSM5 is also adapted to what we now know about autism and the classification Classic Autism, Asperger and PDD-NOS has been released to make room for the classification of ASD based on the degree of need for help.

In the DSM 5, autism has received its own category. It now falls under the neurobiological developmental disorders.

The neurobiological developmental disorders are a group of disorders, which manifest themselves in the course of the development of the individual, and often at a very young age. In psychiatry it is said that brain abnormalities play an important role in this. Neurobiological means everything that has to do with the development and functioning of the nervous system. The nervous system passes on stimuli to the brain. De hersenen zetten die prikkels om in informatie en zorgt ervoor dat het lichaam reageert op die informatie. De werking van het zenuwstelsel en de werking van de hersenen hebben dus grote invloed op hoe wij de wereld om ons heen waarnemen en hoe we reageren.

De neurobiologische ontwikkelingsstoornissen in de DSM 5 zijn:

-   Aandachtsdeficiëntie-/hyperactiviteitsstoornis (ADHD)

-   Autismespectrumstoornissen

-   Verstandelijke beperkingen (globale ontwikkelingsachterstand)

-   Communicatiestoornissen (taalstoornis, spraakklankstoornis, stoornis in de spraakvloeiendheid in de kindertijd, sociale (pragmatische) communicatiestoornis)

-   Specifieke leerstoornissen (zoals dyslexie, dyscalculie)

-   Motorische stoornissen (Coördinatieontwikkelingsstoornis, Stereotype-bewegingsstoornis)

-   Ticstoornissen (stoornis van Gilles de la Tourette)

Een aantal stoornissen staan niet bij de neurobiologische ontwikkelingsstoornissen die wel bij de ontwikkelingsstoornissen stonden in de DSM-IV, zoals eetstoornissen, stoornissen met de ontlasting en andere stoornissen in de kinderleeftijd of adolescentie. Deze vallen nu in andere categorieën.

Wanneer we kijken naar de autismespectrumstoornissen in de DSM 5 zien we dat sommige criteria, waaraan voldaan moet worden, zijn aangepast. Er wordt in de DSM 5 bijvoorbeeld minder nadruk gelegd op het hebben van problemen met de spraak en de motoriek om van een autismespectrumstoornis te kunnen spreken.

Onderzoekers vinden het nog vaak moeilijk om <span class="calibre3">kinderen volgens de DSM 5 te classificeren. Alle kinderen zijn namelijk nog hulpbehoevend. Ze zijn nog aan het groeien, aan het leren en het zich ontwikkelen. Normaal- tot hoogbegaafde autisticische kinderen hebben vaak wat meer begeleiding en ondersteuning nodig, maar dat wil niet zeggen dat ze dat als volwassenen ook nog nodig zullen hebben. Het was tot nu toe niet gebruikelijk om een diagnose binnen de Autisme Spectrum Stoornissen aan te passen. Bij de DSM IV worden diagnoses gegeven, zoals Klassiek autisme, Asperger, PDD-NOS die je je hele leven blijft houden. Maar bij de DSM 5 is dat anders, want een <span class="calibre3">kind met ASS II kan best uitgroeien tot een volwassene met ASS I. De DSM 5 kan autisticen (en hun omgeving) stimuleren om te groeien naar een ASS I diagnose. Een diagnose met de minste hulpbehoevendheid.

