<span id="calibre_link-4" class="calibre1"></span>Structure of the book<span id="calibre_link-82" class="caliber1"></span>
-------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------- ---------------------

While writing this book it became clear how much information is needed to provide as clear a picture as possible about autism. That is why the choice was made to divide the book into parts, so that the information does not become a large jumble, but remains clear and well-organized.

The parts of the book are in turn subdivided into chapters. At the end of each part there is a short summary of what has been discussed.

Part 1 is about science. It highlights the history of science with regard to autism spectrum disorders and how scientists have been working to define what an autism spectrum disorder is.

Part 2 deals mainly with society's view on Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD). It shows how society looks upon ASD and autistics. Here it explains what people in society notice about autistic people and how you can explain many of these traits back to the scientific theories described in part 1.

Part 3 is about how autism spectrum disorder is experienced by the autistics themselves. It plots many personal experiences of autistic people and shares what they experience, which is not very often discussed.

Part 4 is about neurobiological developmental disorder. The various areas of development are described, examined and viewed from the perspective of science and the experience of autistic people.

Part 5 goes deeper into different areas that often come to the fore in autism. It highlights points that have come to the fore in parts 2 and 3, so that there is a better picture of how complex certain aspects are and where bottlenecks may occur.

Part 6 deals with related disorders. In addition to the autism spectrum disorder, autistics can also suffer from other disorders, some of which have been highlighted and briefly reviewed.

Part 7 deals with changes that have taken place in society. In this way, we try to answer the question of why there are more diagnoses nowadays than before, and why there seems to be more and more people with a disorder.

Part 8 contains a summary of the entire book and it lists the conclusions and insights that were revealed. Points are also raised that require further discussion.

The postscript goes deeper into the journey of discovery that the book has been.
